# CS340

Q: How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
        A: I write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable by building simple parts that can be improved or replaced without the rest of the system falling apart.  Then I write helpful notes to explain what those components are doing.  Coders often push themselves to create the most efficient or elegant code but when you're passing the same code base between teams over months or years, that same code can become a huge liability if it isn't being utilized properly or if successive development teams are building code to circumvent features they don't fully understand.  It seems silly but I find it best to write code that suits the lowest-common denominator and document that code well--most applications simply don't need anything advanced and most development teams benefit from simplicity.


Q: How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
        A: I approach a problem by imagining the desired solution and working backwards.  With this project, it was easy since the client actually wanted the solution implemented.  Often, a client requests a solution but they're not ready for a solution.  It's always best when the client has a problem to solve, and actually wants the solution, and has no internal organizational issues that would interfere or create a pattern of constantly changing requirements/requests.  In this case, the template dashboard helping inch toward the client's requests and it all flowed pretty smoothly.  It was a pleasure to work on.


Q: What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
        A: A computer scientist can be anything from an engineer, to a researcher, to a designer.  It is a broad field.  The work matters because our society has shifted to a heavy reliance upon computers to get things done.  There was a time when computers were an optional feature but there are very few industries left that are capable of functioning using only analog systems.  Well build and well maintained code are essential to a well functioning society today.  My work on this project would help a company like Grazioso Salvare become more aware of clients that they can help and the different ways that they can help.  It would also help keep them aware of internal matters, and for a company with global operations like them, it is essential to maintain awareness of their own interests.  Execution is on them, we can't make them better at training working animals or delivering on their promises to clients--but we can certainly help to eliminate some of their problems with technology and data.
